Ways of changing processes 
include killing, pausing, and sending other types of signals.

 ■ Chapter 7, “Writing Simple Shell Scripts,” includes shell commands and functions 

you can gather together into a ﬁ le to run as a command itself.

xxxiv

ﬂ ast.indd  04/02/2015  Page xxxv

Introduction

In Part III, “Becoming a Linux System Administrator,” you learn how to administer Linux 
systems:

 ■ Chapter 8, “Learning System Administration,” provides information on basic 
 graphical tools, commands, and conﬁ guration ﬁ les for administering Linux 
systems.

 ■ Chapter 9, “Installing Linux,” covers common installation tasks, such as disk 
 partitioning and initial software package selection, as well as more advanced 
installation tools, such as installing from kickstart ﬁ les.

 ■ Chapter 10, “Getting and Managing Software,” provides an understanding 
of how software packages work and how to get and manage software 
packages.

 ■ Chapter 11, “Managing User Accounts,” discusses tools for adding and deleting 

users and groups, as well as how to centralize user account management.

 ■ Chapter 12, “Managing Disks and Filesystems,” provides information on adding 

partitions, creating ﬁ lesystems, and mounting ﬁ lesystems, as well as working with 
logical volume management.

In Part IV, “Becoming a Linux Server Administrator,” you learn to create powerful network 
servers and the tools needed to manage them:

 ■ Chapter 13, “Understanding Server Administration,” covers remote logging, 

 monitoring tools, and the Linux boot process.

 ■ Chapter 14, “Administering Networking,” discusses how to conﬁ gure networking.

 ■ Chapter 15, “Starting and Stopping Services,” provides information on starting and 

stopping services.

 ■ Chapter 16, “Conﬁ guring a Print Server,” describes how to conﬁ gure printers to use 

locally on your Linux system or over the network from other computers.

 ■ Chapter 17, “Conﬁ guring a Web Server,” describes how to conﬁ gure an Apache Web 

server.

 ■ Chapter 18, “Conﬁ guring an FTP Server,” covers procedures for setting up a vsftpd FTP 
server that can be used to enable others to download ﬁ les from your Linux system 
over the network.

 ■ Chapter 19, “Conﬁ guring a Windows File Sharing (Samba) Server,” covers Windows 

ﬁ le server conﬁ guration with Samba.

 ■ Chapter 20, “Conﬁ guring an NFS File Server,” describes how to use 

Network File System features to share folders of ﬁ les among systems over a 
network.

 ■ Chapter 21, “Troubleshooting Linux,” covers popular tools for troubleshooting your 

Linux system.

xxxv

ﬂ ast.indd  04/02/2015  Page xxxvi

Introduction

In Part V, “Learning Linux Security Techniques,” you learn how to secure your Linux sys-
tems and services:

 ■ Chapter 22, “Understanding Basic Linux Security,” covers basic security concepts 

and techniques.

 ■ Chapter 23, “Understanding Advanced Linux Security,” provides information on 

using Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) and cryptology tools to tighten sys-
tem security and authentication.

 ■ Chapter 24, “Enhancing Linux Security with SELinux,” shows you how to enable 

Security Enhanced Linux (SELinux) to secure system services.

 ■ Chapter 25, “Securing Linux on the Network,” covers network security features, 

such as firewalld and iptables ﬁ rewalls, to secure system services.

Part VI, “Extending Linux into the Cloud,” takes you into cutting-edge cloud technologies:

 ■ Chapter 26, “Using Linux for Cloud Computing,” introduces concepts of cloud com-
puting in Linux by describing how to set up hypervisors, build virtual machines, 
and share resources across networks.

 ■ Chapter 27, “Deploying Linux to the Cloud,” describes how to deploy Linux images 

to different cloud environments, including OpenStack, Amazon EC2, or a local Linux 
system conﬁ gured for virtualization.

Part VII contains two appendixes to help you get the most from your exploration of Linux.